alright welcome back in this video I'm
going to demonstrate how you would
safely and securely sanitize the data on
a hard disk or flash drive you may have
an old machine that you're going to sell
or donate to charity and you'll want to
make completely share that all your
personally identifiable information and
private data has been wiped clean before
you reinstall the operating system it's
a good idea to do this because a lot of
people don't realize that you can
recover data from a disk drive if it was
simply deleted or formatted so short of
actually physically destroying the hard
drive this is the next back best method
to ensure that your data is gone and
you'll still have a working hard drive
so to begin we're going to do a Google
search for ubcd that's short for
ultimate boot CD now there are a lot of
freely available tools out there to
accomplish this task this just happens
to be one of my favorites so if you head
on over to ultra boot CD comm will be
able to download the ISO image so you
just come down here and grab it from one
of the mirror sites and I already have
grabbed the ISO image if you have a CD
burning software a lot of times it has
the capability of burning CD images if
not you can use a freely available image
burning software called appropriately
named image burn and you'll just want to
open that up and write a image file to a
disc and you'll select the file and it's
pretty straightforward once you've burnt
your disc you're going to want to boot
the machine with the hard drive or the
where you're going to connect the flash
drive to you're going to want to boot it
from the CD
times you can go into your BIOS by using
f2 or delete change the boot order and
some machines have a hotkey like f12 or
escape during startup to select which
device you would like to boot from
alright once you've booted your machine
from the ultimate boot CD you'll be
greeted with this menu selection you're
going to want to scroll down to HDD for
the hard disk drives and then we're
going to go down to disk wiping these
are all various tools you can use to
type your various disk drives we're
going to be using boot and nuke so we're
going to go ahead and hit enter and then
we're going to go ahead and start in
interactive mode so we're just going to
hit the enter key and it may take a few
moments to register our USB devices and
drives so we're just going to give that
a second sometimes it can take a few
minutes so just be patient and there we
are
so on this screen you're going to be
presented with your various disks and
partitions in this example I'm going to
format a flash drive an 8 gig flash
drive so you can change the options such
as the method or how many rounds so for
instance if you hit the M key you'll be
given some choices on the various wipe
methods by default it selects the
department of defense short wipe there
also is a Department of Defense standard
wipe and a few other choices so we'll
just stay with the DoD short wipe and
then we can go into rounds by pressing R
and you can specify the number of times
to run the white the more paranoid
people can increase the number of rounds
just to be certain that everything's
gone but for most people one round
should definitely suffice so you're
going to use the spacebar to select the
disk or partition and when you're ready
you're going to hit the f10 key and then
it's going to begin doing the wipe
please do take caution when you're
selecting the disk apart ition not to
select one that you don't intend to lose
everything on and depending on the size
of the disk the number of rounds and the
method that you're using it can take
quite a while to do this but it's
alright you can just leave it running
come back when it's done I hope this was
helpful thanks